
# HTTP header manipulation

## x-ot-span-context

**LightStep**

The x-ot-span-context HTTP header is used by Envoy to establish proper parent-child relationships between tracing spans when used with the LightStep tracer. For example, an egress span is a child of an ingress span (if the ingress span was present). Envoy injects the x-ot-span-context header on ingress requests and forwards it to the local service. Envoy relies on the application to propagate x-ot-span-context on the egress call to an upstream. See more on tracing here.

## x-b3-traceid

**ZipKin and 64-bit length**

The x-b3-traceid HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. The TraceId is 64-bit in length and indicates the overall ID of the trace. Every span in a trace shares this ID. See more on zipkin tracing here.

## x-b3-spanid

**ZipKin and 64-bit length**

The x-b3-spanid HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. The SpanId is 64-bit in length and indicates the position of the current operation in the trace tree. The value should not be interpreted: it may or may not be derived from the value of the TraceId. See more on zipkin tracing here.

## x-b3-parentspanid

**ZipKin and 64-bit length**

The x-b3-parentspanid HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. The ParentSpanId is 64-bit in length and indicates the position of the parent operation in the trace tree. When the span is the root of the trace tree, the ParentSpanId is absent. See more on zipkin tracing here.

## x-b3-sampled

**ZipKin and 0 or 1**

The x-b3-sampled HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. When the Sampled flag is either not specified or set to 1, the span will be reported to the tracing system. Once Sampled is set to 0 or 1, the same value should be consistently sent downstream. See more on zipkin tracing here.

## x-b3-flags

**ZipKin and 1 or absent**

The x-b3-flags HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. The encode one or more options. For example, Debug is encoded as X-B3-Flags: 1. See more on zipkin tracing here.

## b3

**ZipKin's single header mode**

The b3 HTTP header is used by the Zipkin tracer in Envoy. Is a more compressed header format. See more on zipkin tracing here.


## x-datadog-trace-id

**Datadog and 64-bit length**

The x-datadog-trace-id HTTP header is used by the Datadog tracer in Envoy. The 64-bit value represents the ID of the overall trace, and is used to correlate the spans.

## x-datadog-parent-id

**Datadog and 64-bit length**

The x-datadog-parent-id HTTP header is used by the Datadog tracer in Envoy. The 64-bit value uniquely identifies the span within the trace, and is used to create parent-child relationships between spans.

## x-datadog-sampling-priority

**Datadog and 0 or 1**

The x-datadog-sampling-priority HTTP header is used by the Datadog tracer in Envoy. The integer value indicates the sampling decision that has been made for this trace. A value of 0 indicates that the trace should not be collected, and a value of 1 requests that spans are sampled and reported.

## sw8

**SkyWaking**

The sw8 HTTP header is used by the SkyWalking tracer in Envoy. It contains the key tracing context for the SkyWalking tracer and is used to establish the relationship between the tracing spans of downstream and Envoy. 